SQS and SNS 

SQS - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CyYZ3adwboc&ab_channel=BeABetterDev

Why use SQS over API calls

SQS is distributed queuing service.

1. Backpressure control - Consumers can choose the rate of processing
2. Fire and Forget - Publishers have no insight into client processing
3. Eventual Guaranteed Processing - Great for async or non-realtime apps
4. Application decoupling - Decouple service dependencies 
5. Many threads/processes can poll a queue at once
6. Only a single thread/process can process a message at once
7. Long polling is supported and encouraged
8. 256 kb maximum payload size per message
9. DLQ can help store failed messages for later

Visibility timeout and message locking 

Standard SQS queues

1. Best effort ordering
2. At least once delivery
3. unlimited throughput

Fifo SQS queues

1. First In and First Out Ordering
2. Exactly once processing
3. 300 TPS max(3000 with batching)
4. Slightly (~25%) more expensive


Amazon SQS is a fully managed message queuing service that enables you to decouple and scale microservices, distributed systems, and serverless applications.

SQS is distributed queuing system. Messages are not pushed to receivers. Receivers have to poll SQS to receive messages. Messages can be stored in SQS for short duration of time (max 14 days).

Messages can’t be received by multiple receivers at the same time. Any one receiver can receive a message, process and delete it. Other receivers do not receive the same message later. Polling inherently introduces some latency in message delivery in SQS unlike SNS where messages are immediately pushed to subscribers.


SNS 

SNS is a distributed publish-subscribe service.

- Publisher - Subscriber system
- Publishing messages to a topic can deliver to many subscribers (fan out) of different types


Amazon SNS is a fast, flexible, fully managed push notification service that lets you send individual messages or to bulk messages to large numbers of recipients. Amazon SNS makes it simple and cost effective to send push notifications to mobile device users, email recipients or even send messages to other distributed services.

SNS is a distributed publish-subscribe system. Messages are pushed to subscribers as and when they are sent by publishers to SNS.

SNS supports several end points such as email, sms, http end point and SQS. If you want unknown number and type of subscribers to receive messages, you need SNS. With Amazon SNS, you can send push notifications to Apple, Google, Fire OS, and Windows devices , as well as to Android devices




Key Differences b/w SNS and SQS

Entity Type
SQS : Queue (similar to JMS, MSMQ).
SNS : Topic-Subscriber (Pub/Sub system).

Message consumption
SQS : Pull Mechanism — Consumers poll messages from SQS.
SNS : Push Mechanism — SNS pushes messages to consumers.

Persistence
SQS : Messages are persisted for some duration is no consumer available. The retention period value is from 1 minute to 14 days. The default is 4 days.
SNS : No persistence. Whichever consumer is present at the time of message arrival, get the message and the message is deleted. If no consumers available then the message is lost.

In SQS the message delivery is guaranteed but in SNS it is not.

Consumer Type
SQS : All the consumers are supposed to be identical and hence process the messages in exact same way.
SNS : All the consumers are (supposed to be) processing the messages in different ways.


Use Cases

Choose SNS if:

You would like to be able to publish and consume batches of messages.`
You would like to allow same message to be processed in multiple ways.
Multiple subscribers are needed.

Choose SQS if:

You need a simple queue with no particular additional requirements.
Decoupling two applications and allowing parallel asynchronous processing.
Only one subscriber is needed.

We can design fanout pattern by using both SNS and SQS. In this pattern, a message published to an SNS topic is distributed to multiple SQS queues in parallel.



AWS SQS doc : https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/sqs-short-and-long-polling.html
